=head1 NAME

augmatch - inspect and match contents of configuration files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

augmatch [OPTIONS] FILE

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<augmatch> prints the tree that Augeas generates by parsing a
configuration file, or only those parts of the tree that match a certain
path expression. Parsing is controlled by lenses, many of which ship with
Augeas. B<augmatch> to select the correct lens for a given file
automatically unless one is specified with the B<--lens> option.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-a>, B<--all>

Print all tree nodes, even ones without an associated value. Without this
flag, augmatch omits these nodes from the output as they are usually
uninteresting.

=item B<-e>, B<--exact>

Only print the parts of the tree that exactly match the expression provided
with B<--match> and not any of the descendants of matching nodes.

=item B<-I>, B<--include>=I<DIR>

Add DIR to the module loadpath. Can be given multiple times. The
directories set here are searched before any directories specified in the
AUGEAS_LENS_LIB environment variable, and before the default directories
F</usr/share/augeas/lenses> and F</usr/share/augeas/lenses/dist>.

=item B<-l>, B<--lens>=I<LENS>

Use LENS for the given file; without this option, B<augmatch> tries to
guess the lens for the file based on the file's name and path which only
works for files in standard locations.

=item B<-L>, B<--print-lens>

Print the name of the lens that will be used with the given file and exit.

=item B<-m>, B<--match>=I<EXPR>

Only print the parts of the tree that match the path expression EXPR. All
nodes that match EXPR and their descendants will be printed. Use L<--exact>
to print only matching nodes but no descendants.

=item B<-r>, B<--root>=I<ROOT>

Use directory ROOT as the root of the filesystem. Takes precedence over a
root set with the AUGEAS_ROOT environment variable.

=item B<-S>, B<--nostdinc>

Do not search any of the default directories for lenses. When this option
is set, only directories specified explicitly with B<-I> or specified in
B<AUGEAS_LENS_LIB> will be searched for modules.

=item B<-o>, B<--only-value>

Print only the value and not the label or the path of nodes.

=item B<-q>, B<--quiet>

Do not print anything. Exit with zero status if a match was found

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

=over 4

=item B<AUGEAS_ROOT>

The file system root, defaults to '/'. Can be overridden with
the B<-r> command line option

=item B<AUGEAS_LENS_LIB>

Colon separated list of directories with lenses. Directories specified here
are searched after any directories set with the B<-I> command line option,
but before the default directories F</usr/share/augeas/lenses> and
F</usr/share/augeas/lenses/dist>

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

  # print the tree for /etc/exports
  augmatch /etc/exports

  # show only the entry for a specific mount
  augmatch -m 'dir["/home"]' /etc/exports

  # show all the clients to which we are exporting /home
  augmatch -eom 'dir["/home"]/client' /etc/exports

=head1 EXIT STATUS

The exit status is 0 when there was at least one match, 1 if there was no
match, and 2 if an error occurred.

=head1 FILES

Lenses and schema definitions in F</usr/share/augeas/lenses> and
F</usr/share/augeas/lenses/dist>

=head1 AUTHOR

David Lutterkort <lutter@watzmann.net>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2007-2018 David Lutterkort

Augeas (and augmatch) are distributed under the GNU Lesser General Public
License (LGPL)

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<Augeas> project homepage L<http://www.augeas.net/>

B<Augeas> path expressions L<https://github.com/hercules-team/augeas/wiki/Path-expressions>

L<augsuggest>
