=head1 NAME

augparse - execute an Augeas module

=head1 SYNOPSIS

augparse [OPTIONS] MODULE

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Execute an Augeas module, most commonly to evaluate the tests it contains.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-I> I<DIR>

Add DIR to the module loadpath. Can be given multiple times. The
directories set here are searched before any directories specified in the
AUGEAS_LENS_LIB environment variable, and before the default directory
F</usr/share/augeas/lenses>.

=item B<--nostdinc>

Do not search any of the default directories for modules. When this option
is set, only directories specified explicitly with B<-I> or specified in
B<AUGEAS_LENS_LIB> will be searched for modules.

=item B<--notypecheck>

Do not perform lens type checks. Only use this option during lens
development and make sure you typecheck lenses when you are done developing
- you should never use a lens that hasn't been typechecked. This option is
sometimes useful when you are working on unit tests for a lens to speed up
the time it takes to repeatedly run and fix tests.

=item B<--version>

Print version information and exit.

=item B<-h>

Display this help and exit

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

To run the tests in F<lenses/tests/test_foo.aug> and use modules from the
directory F<lenses>, run

=over 4

augparse -I lenses lenses/tests/test_foo.aug

=back

=head1 TESTS

Tests can appear as top-level forms anywhere in a module. Generally, the
tests for a module F<lenses/foo.aug> are kept in a separate file, usually
in F<lenses/tests/test_foo.aug>.

There are two different kinds of tests that Augeas can run: B<get> and
B<put> tests. The syntax for B<get> tests is

=over 4

test LENS get STRING = RESULT

=back

which applies the I<get> direction of the lens LENS to STRING and compares
it with the given RESULT. RESULT can either be a tree literal, the symbol
B<?> to print the result of applying LENS to STRING, or the symbol B<*> to
indicate that the test should produce an exception.

The syntax for B<put> tests is

=over 4

test LENS put STRING after COMMANDS = RESULT

=back

which first applies the I<get> direction of the lens LENS to STRING, then
applies the given COMMANDS to the resulting tree, and finally transforms
the modified tree back to a string using the I<put> direction of LENS. The
resulting string is then compared to RESULT, which can be a string, the
symbol B<?> to print the result of applying LENS to STRING, or the symbol
B<*> to indicate that the test should produce an exception.

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<Augeas> project homepage L<http://www.augeas.net/>

L<augtool>
